---
templateKey: post
title: Playing the Theatre Company Game
slug: /blog/playing-the-theatre-company-game
author: Gabe Kirkley
image: null
imageAltText: null
imageCredt: null
keywords:
  - theatre
  - theatre company
  - non profit
  - business
published: 2022-04-20
date: 2022-04-20
---

Most theatre companies, like any business, are playing an infinite game. The
game is called _non-profit theatre_.

This framework was described to me recently, and I've been thinking about it a
lot in the context of theatre. See, the thing about infinite games is that you
never "win" the game, and the game is never "finished". Instead, the whole point
of playing the game is to play well enough to _keep_ playing the game.

Within infinite games, we play sub games with finite bounds. Those games have
different rules and can change from year to year, but ultimately, we play them
because they are what let us continue playing the infinite game.

Infinite games only end when a player runs out of the will or resources to keep
playing.

For most theatre companies, the version of the game that they play is called
"present new, professional (quality) productions of well known plays and
musicals".

It's a game that many, many companies are currently playing and it's a game that
many, many companies have lost.

But the problem is... the way we play the game isn't working for everyone and
**it isn't the only way to play**.

You see, the _non-profit theatre_ game was invented by and benefits players who
a) own theatre & rehearsal spaces, b) have the time (staff) and material (money)
resources to compete well, and c) have the benefit of having started playing
early enough to acquire those things when they were cheap or have the wealthy
benefactors (governments, municipalities, donors) to acquire them without
exhausting their existing resources.

New theatre companies spring up with some frequency and they attempt to play the
exact same way as these big players. Nearly all of them eventually lose. Either
because they literally ran out of money or the founders ran out of the will to
continue (usually because of money).

I believe that starting a theatre company doesn't have to be **such** a risky
business. In fact, it can actually be as profitable as any business with the
right amount of luck, talent, and skill from the founders.

And I believe the best way to do that is to play _differently_ from the big
players.

To understand how, let's break down the finite games within the usual
_non-profit theatre_ game.

## Finite Games

For most theatres, there are two main games that are played year after year.

The first game that theatres play is called **"putting on a show"**. They play
this X number of times per year—maybe as many as 20 times. It starts when a
production is announced and ends when the financial books are closed. The
theatre wins this game if a) enough people come to see the show that it reaches
it's financial targets, and/or b) if it's an artistic success in terms of
achievement, quality, or growth of the community.

They also play an annual game called **"raise enough money from donors and
sponsors."** This game starts at the beginning of the fiscal year and ends at
the end of the fiscal year. A theatre wins this game if they are successful in
raising enough money to reach their targets.

Then there are some other games—maybe the theatre has an education department,
or some longer term fundraising campaigns. But overall, those two games are the
common games between most theatres.

Remember: finite games are what allow a company to understand whether they're
successful at the infinite game. So let's examine this: how good are newer
companies at playing these games?

## Hitting a Wall

Most people playing the non-profit theatre game know that they're not quite
succeeding.

That's because we're not playing games that we can win _consistently_ enough.
The patron base, artistic talent pool, and revenue doesn't grow as fast as
everyone would like. But, we _must_ continue to grow in order to meet the goals,
like owning a theatre space or employing staff, that will make playing the
infinite game easier.

Here's the problem:

1. Every show and season starts from scratch

Each new show is an entirely new project. From production to promotions, new
companies _try_ to reuse as much as possible in ideas and resources, but in
essence, the core product is new to them and their customers every single time.

In part, that is the ephemeral nature of our business, but it is also our
choices on **how** to create our product.

Because their product is new to them every time, they have to spend a large
proportion of their limited resources planning, building, administering,
gathering, understanding, discovering, and producing.

Because their product is new to their customers every time, they have to spend a
large proportion of their limited resources casting a wide net to find people
who might be interested in the current product.

This means that they are caught in a cycle where they must choose plays or
musicals that are _well-known enough_ to win the first game _enough_ that they
don’t run out of resource.

2. They can't reach the right audience

Every show has the right audience. This is the group who will love a production,
who are searching for that production, and who are craving what they will get
from it. The right audience can be customers, but it can also be actors,
designers, crew, etc.

But, because they have to cast a wide net, companies only catch _some_ of this
audience. And, worse yet, a portion of customers won’t be able to buy their
product or participate in their production because of distance, or time, or
price, or commitments, or, or…

And since every show starts from scratch, they have to start from the beginning
to find the right audience.

Every now and then, a company is lucky and they capture enough of the right
audience that they unexpectedly win and then some.

But more often than not, they meet expectations or just fall short.

3. Well known means they don't own

In order to survive, companies must choose plays or musicals that are well
known. A good, well known show seems to guarantee an audience on name
recognition alone. But even less well known shows still need to be well known
enough to bring in a large enough crowd.

Well known is expensive. Expensive in licensing, in resources, in time, in
effort, and in advertising. Expensive means that it’s much harder to win.

Well known also means that they don’t own anything that they produce. We all
know that one of the most important aspects of creative work is ownership: a
musician must own their songs, a filmmaker must own their film, a writer must
own their book. But, most of the time, we don't do that in theatre. Instead, we
**license and rent everything that we produce**.

Now, we could get around this partly by picking only _very_ well known plays or
musicals, but that would not always fulfill the second way they win the game:
artistic success.

So, ironically, producing well known shows actually makes it harder to win the
game.

4. They don't stand out

"Well known" and "new every time" are exactly how everyone plays the game.
That's why we play it like we do and why everyone else plays it like this. We’re
all copying each other and hoping that we play just a little bit better.

The problem with being just like everyone else is that they don’t stand out from
the crowd. Sure, their productions might be higher quality, their processes
might be better, they might find ways to be innovative… but to the outside eye
who isn’t keeping up with all that, they don’t stand out.

That’s a problem when they want to find the right audience. How would a
potential patron know that this is the show that can give them what they’ve been
looking for?

5. It isn't fun

Finally, everyone got into this to make good theatre; to enjoy the rush of
artistic success; to be challenged and engaged; and to inspire their friends,
family and community. That’s what makes it fun to do what we do.

Sometimes, we get what we want. But it's very valuable to keep asking yourself,
is the way that you’re playing the game now fun? Are you enjoying it? Do you
want to keep playing year after year after year?
